---
layout: post
title:  梅涛研究员前往北邮作学术报告
date:   2016-06-14 
categories: news
ascription: news
author: 刘武
---
* content
{:toc}
## Description
题目：Video Captioning and Commenting: Bridging Video and Language with Deep Learning  
主讲人：Tao Mei 研究员（Lead Researcher），Microsoft Research Asia  
主持人：马华东教授  
时间：2016年6月14日（星期二）下午5点~6点  
地点：北邮教三楼611




## Abstract
The recent advances in deep learning have boosted the research on video analysis. 

For example, convolutional neural networks have demonstrated the superiority on modeling high-level visual concepts, while recurrent neural networks have been proven to be good at modeling mid-level temporal dynamics in the video data. 

We present a few recent advances for understanding video content using deep learning techniques. Specifically, this talk will focus on translating video to sentence with joint embedding and translation, which achieves the best to-date performance in this nascent vision task. 

We will also talk about future directions for video captioning, as well as a new “Video to Language” Grand Challenge with dataset organized by Microsoft Research Asia.

## Bio
Dr. Tao Mei is a Lead Researcher with Microsoft Research Asia. His current research interests include multimedia information retrieval and computer vision. He has authored or co-authored over 150 papers in journals and conferences and holds 15 U.S. granted patents. Tao has shipped a dozen video technologies to Microsoft products, with millions of daily users. He was the recipient of several paper awards from prestigious multimedia journals and conferences, including the IEEE Communications Society MMTC Best Journal Paper Award in 2015, IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology Best Paper Award in 2014, the IEEE Trans on Multimedia Prize Paper Award in 2013, and the Best Paper Awards at ACM Multimedia in 2009 and 2007, and so on. He is an Associate Editor of IEEE Trans. on Multimedia, ACM Trans. on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications, Machine Vision and Applications, and Multimedia Systems. He is the General Co-chair and Program Co-chair of several multimedia conferences. He received the B.E. and Ph.D. degrees from University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, China, in 2001 and 2006, respectively. He is also an adjunct professor (PhD supervisor) of USTC (中国科大) and SYSU (中山大学).